Update Braille Reading and Automatic Scroll Rate in User Guide (#20477)
nvaccess/nvda: user_docs/en/userGuide.md

This section also contains information about what displays support NVDA's automatic background braille display detection functionality.
You can configure braille using the [Braille category](#BrailleSettings) of the [NVDA Settings](#NVDASettings) dialog.

### Braille Reading {#BrailleReading}

When reading braille on a refreshable display, text is presented in the current [output table](#BrailleSettingsOutputTable) and [Braille Mode](#BrailleMode).
Where text is longer than will fit on the display, panning or other keys on the device can be used to navigate without moving the focus or text caret.

#### Automatic Braille Scrolling {AutomaticBrailleScrolling}

[Automatic braille scrolling](#BrailleAutoScrollRate) can be enabled to scroll the display at a set speed.
When using this feature, the braille display scrolls to present information which is more than will fit on the display at once.
The feature is disabled and a gesture to start braille scrolling is undefined by default.
To use automatic braille scrolling, a gesture needs to be set in NVDA's [input gestures](#InputGestures) before it can be used.

> Gesture can also be set to speed up or slow down the rate of automatic scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gestures can also be set to speed up or slow down the rate of automatic scrolling.
```

> While braille is scrolling, you can still use the scroll back command to read previous contents again, and scroll forward, for example, to skip a blank line, or if the line being read is too short.

Reviewer: could this line please be split up, it's quite long and would be hard for people with lower reading levels to parse.

Author: ```suggestion
While braille is scrolling, you can still use the scroll back and scroll forward commands without stopping scrolling.
Scroll back can be useful to read previous contents again.
Scroll forward can be useful to skip a blank line, or if the line being read is short.
```

While reading, automatic braille scrolling will stop when any of the following happen:

* The toggle automatic braille scrolling key is pressed
* The user presses a key or gesture which would display a new message
* The focus is moved (including with braille display panning keys)
* The end of the document is reached
* If the state of the lock or secure screen is changed (such as the computer being locked)

#### Braille Reading Gestures {BrailleReadingGestures}

> | Name | Key | Description |

Reviewer: can this get a kc command to include it in quick commands?

> | Name | Key | Description |

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- KC:beginInclude -->
| Name | Key | Description |
```

> | Name | Key | Description |

Reviewer 2: Even if there are, unfortunately, exceptions (e.g. Magnifier), the gesture corresponding to a setting are usually documented along with this same setting.

I'd recommend to stick to this approach with this PR and document here only the gestures which have no corresponding setting, e.g. toggle automatic scrolling (but not increase/decrease rate), scroll backward / forward, etc. Also, I've not looked at it but some of these gestures are probably already documented in the braille displays section (e.g. scroll backward/forward) Again, beware to duplicates.

We can then discuss in a subsequent issue / PR if settings gestures should be documented along with the corresponding setting description of the option in the dialog or in a single table in the section describing the feature.

Author: I'm a bit confused what you are arguing for here?  The magnifier section in the user guide (not its settings) is where the table of settings for using magnification is.... which is consistent with object navigation, review cursor, mouse navigation, browse mode, etc.  Having a table of Braille gestures in the main "Braille" section seems to be in line with that?   (The section you are commenting on here IS in the main braille section, not the setting.  This PR covers edits to both parts of the user guide).

The one thing I didn't put in was the little table where the setting is noting what the default keystroke etc is, is that what you were looking for?

Reviewer 2: For example regarding object navigation:
In paragraph 5.4, you have a table with commands such as "Report current object", "Move to containing object", etc. All the commands of this table have no equivalent in the settings section ()

This is of course not 100% accurate. For mouse we have "Toggle mouse audio coordinates" in the table of the paragraph of the feature "5.7. Navigating with the Mouse" but none of the other mouse settings even when they are assigned such as mouse tracking (NVDA+M) which is documented in "13.1.12.3. Enable mouse tracking".

On the opposite, for Magnifier, we have duplicated commands to toggle settings which appear both in the table of paragraph "10.2. Magnifier Commands" and in the sub-paragraphs of paragraph "13.1.10. Magnifier", e.g. `NVDA+shift+w`, `NVDA+shift+i`.

Author: Ok I get you now.  I would like to revisit how the keyCommands document is arranged at some point (in a future PR).  While the need to assign a gesture for the automatic scroll rate commands is mentioned in the settings section, it isn't included in a table (for the keyCommands doc) anywhere other than here currently.  There is a request elsewhere to assign a default keystroke, and when one is assigned it might be worth taking out of this table and including there, but for now I think it is worth leaving here?

I checked the scroll backwards / forwards and they are documented in several braille display tables as "Scroll braille display back / scroll braille display forwards", where those devices have their own gestures defined - but I don't readily see them mentioned elsewhere?

Reviewer 2: Enable/disable auto-scroll should definitely remain here, no matter if a default gesture is assigned in the future, since there is no corresponding GUI setting where it would be documented.

Re scroll backward/forward, there is no setting either. True that it is documented in each display, but duplicating this information to make it central does not seem shocking to me. This may be re-discussed later if you work on clarifying how and where gestures are documented.

|---|---|---|
| Toggles braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Allows cycling between available braille modes: "follow cursors" and "display speech output"|

> | Tether braille |`VDA+control+t` | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |

Author: ```suggestion
| Tether braille |`NVDA+control+t` | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Tether braille |`NVDA+control+t` | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |
```

| Toggle automatic scroll | None | Scrolls the display to present information which is larger than will fit on the display at once.  Press again to pause scrolling |

> | Increase automatic scroll rate | none | Makes automatic scrolling faster (when enabled) |

Reviewer: Please capitalize None in the rest of these

> | Increase automatic scroll rate | none | Makes automatic scrolling faster (when enabled) |

Author: ```suggestion
| Increase automatic scroll rate | None | Makes automatic scrolling faster (when enabled) |
```

> | Decrease automatic scroll rate | none | Makes automatic scrolling slower (when enabled) |

Author: ```suggestion
| Decrease automatic scroll rate | None | Makes automatic scrolling slower (when enabled) |
```

> | Cycle braille cursor shapes | none | Cycle through the shape options (dot pattern) of the braille cursor |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cycle braille cursor shapes | None | Cycle through the shape options (dot pattern) of the braille cursor |
```

> | Cycle move system caret when routing review cursor | none | Cycle through the braille move system caret when routing review cursor states |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cycle move system caret when routing review cursor | None | Cycle through the braille move system caret when routing review cursor states |
```

> | Cycle show messages modes | none | Cycle through the braille show messages modes |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cycle show messages modes | None | Cycle through the braille show messages modes |
```

> | Cycle braille show selection states | none | Cycle through the braille show selection states |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cycle braille show selection states | None | Cycle through the braille show selection states |
```

> | Cycle braille Unicode normalization states | none | Cycle through the braille Unicode normalization states |

Author: ```suggestion
| Cycle braille Unicode normalization states | None | Cycle through the braille Unicode normalization states |
```

> | Move braille to focus | none | Moves the braille display to the current focus |

Author: ```suggestion
| Move braille to focus | None | Moves the braille display to the current focus |
```

> | Move braille to next line | none | Moves the braille display to the next line |

Author: ```suggestion
| Move braille to next line | None | Moves the braille display to the next line |
```

> | Move braille to previous line | none | Moves the braille display to the previous line |

Author: ```suggestion
| Move braille to previous line | None | Moves the braille display to the previous line |
```

> | Report braille formatting | none | Reports formatting info for the text under this braille cell |

Author: ```suggestion
| Report braille formatting | None | Reports formatting info for the text under this braille cell |
```

> | Route to or activate braille object | none | Routes the cursor to or activates the object under this braille cell |

Author: ```suggestion
| Route to or activate braille object | None | Routes the cursor to or activates the object under this braille cell |
```

> | Scroll braille display back | none | Scrolls the braille display back |

Author: ```suggestion
| Scroll braille display back | None | Scrolls the braille display back |
```

> | Scroll braille display forward | none | Scrolls the braille display forward |

Author: ```suggestion
| Scroll braille display forward | None | Scrolls the braille display forward |
```

> | Toggle braille tethering | NVDA+ctrl+t | Toggle tethering of braille between the focus and the review position |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle braille tethering | `NVDA+ctrl+t` | Toggle tethering of braille between the focus and the review position |
```

> | Toggle braille cursor | none | Toggle the braille cursor on and off |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle braille cursor | None | Toggle the braille cursor on and off |
```

> | Toggle braille context information | none | Toggle the way context information is presented in braille |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle braille context information | None | Toggle the way context information is presented in braille |
```

> | Toggle braille mode | NVDA+alt+t | Toggles braille mode |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Toggles braille mode |
```

> | Toggle braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Toggles braille mode |

Reviewer 2: This entry appears twice in the table.

> | Toggle braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Toggles braille mode |

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | Toggle braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Toggles braille mode |

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | Toggle speaking when navigating braille | none | Toggles on and off speaking when navigating by lines or paragraph with braille |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle speaking when navigating braille | None | Toggles on and off speaking when navigating by lines or paragraph with braille |
```

> | Toggle speaking character when routing | none | Toggles speaking the character under the cursor when routing cursor in text |

Author: ```suggestion
| Toggle speaking character when routing | None | Toggles speaking the character under the cursor when routing cursor in text |
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- KC:endInclude -->

```

## Braille {#Braille}

If you have access to a braille display, NVDA can display information in braille.
If your braille display has a Perkins-style keyboard, you can also enter contracted or uncontracted braille.
Braille can also be displayed on screen using the [Braille Viewer](#BrailleViewer) instead of, or at the same time as, using a physical braille display.

Please see the [Supported Braille Displays](#SupportedBrailleDisplays) section for information about the supported braille displays.
This section also contains information about what displays support NVDA's automatic background braille display detection functionality.
You can configure braille using the [Braille category](#BrailleSettings) of the [NVDA Settings](#NVDASettings) dialog.

### Braille Reading {#BrailleReading}

> When reading braille on a refreshable display, text is presented in the current [output table](#BrailleSettingsOutputTable) and [Braille mode](#BrailleMode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When reading braille on a refreshable display, text is presented in the current [output table](#BrailleSettingsOutputTable) and [Braille Mode](#BrailleMode).
```

or

```suggestion
When reading braille on a refreshable display, text is presented in the current [output table](#BrailleSettingsOutputTable) and [braille mode](#BrailleMode).
```

[Automatic braille scrolling](#BrailleAutoScrollRate) can be enabled to scroll the display at a set speed.
When using this feature, the braille display scrolls to present information which is more than will fit on the display at once.
The feature is disabled and a gesture to start braille scrolling is undefined by default.
To use automatic braille scrolling, a gesture needs to be set in NVDA's [input gestures](#InputGestures) before it can be used.
Gesture can also be set to speed up or slow down the rate of automatic scrolling.

While braille is scrolling, you can still use the scroll back command to read previous contents again, and scroll forward, for example, to skip a blank line, or if the line being read is too short.

While reading, automatic braille scrolling will stop when any of the following happen:

* The toggle automatic braille scrolling key is pressed
* The user presses a key or gesture which would display a new message
* The focus is moved (including with braille display panning keys)
* The end of the document is reached
* If the state of the lock or secure screen is changed (such as the computer being locked)

> Braille Reading Gestures {BrailleReadingGestures}

Reviewer: this is missing a heading level

Author: ```suggestion
#### Braille Reading Gestures {BrailleReadingGestures}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Name | Key | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | braille mode | NVDA+alt+t | Allows cycling between available braille modes: "follow cursors" and "display speech output"|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Toggles braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Allows cycling between available braille modes: "follow cursors" and "display speech output"|
```

| Tether braille | NVDA+control+t | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |

> | Toggle automatic scroll | none | Scrolls the display to present information which is larger than will fit on the display at once.  Press again to pause scrolling |

Reviewer: Can you add code formatting to gestures and capitalise None please

```suggestion
| Tether braille |` NVDA+control+t` | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |
| Toggle automatic scroll | None | Scrolls the display to present information which is larger than will fit on the display at once.  Press again to pause scrolling |
```

## Braille {#Braille}

If you have access to a braille display, NVDA can display information in braille.
If your braille display has a Perkins-style keyboard, you can also enter contracted or uncontracted braille.
Braille can also be displayed on screen using the [Braille Viewer](#BrailleViewer) instead of, or at the same time as, using a physical braille display.

Please see the [Supported Braille Displays](#SupportedBrailleDisplays) section for information about the supported braille displays.
This section also contains information about what displays support NVDA's automatic background braille display detection functionality.
You can configure braille using the [Braille category](#BrailleSettings) of the [NVDA Settings](#NVDASettings) dialog.

> ### Braille Reading {#BrailleReading}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Reading Braille {#BrailleReading}
```

or

```suggestion
### Reading in Braille {#BrailleReading}
```

When reading braille on a refreshable display, text is presented in the current [output table](#BrailleSettingsOutputTable) and [Braille Mode](#BrailleMode).
Where text is longer than will fit on the display, panning or other keys on the device can be used to navigate without moving the focus or text caret.

#### Automatic Braille Scrolling {#AutomaticBrailleScrolling}

> [Automatic braille scrolling](#BrailleAutoScrollRate) can be enabled to scroll the display at a set speed.

Reviewer 4: I don't think this link makes sense here
```suggestion
Automatic braille scrolling can be enabled to scroll the display at a set speed.
```

When using this feature, the braille display scrolls to present information which is more than will fit on the display at once.
The feature is disabled and a gesture to start braille scrolling is undefined by default.
To use automatic braille scrolling, a gesture needs to be set in NVDA's [Input Gestures dialog](#InputGestures) before it can be used.

> Gestures can also be set to speed up or slow down the rate of automatic scrolling.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Gestures can also be set to speed up or slow down the rate of automatic scrolling.
Alternatively, you can [set the automatic scroll rate in Braille Settings](#BrailleAutoScrollRate).
```

While braille is scrolling, you can still use the scroll back and scroll forward commands without stopping scrolling.
Scroll back can be useful to read previous contents again.
Scroll forward can be useful to skip a blank line, or if the line being read is short.

While reading, automatic braille scrolling will stop when any of the following happen:

* The toggle automatic braille scrolling key is pressed
* The user presses a key or gesture which would display a new message
* The focus is moved (including with braille display panning keys)
* The end of the document is reached

> * If the state of the lock or secure screen is changed (such as the computer being locked)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The state of the lock or secure screen is changed (such as the computer being locked)
```

#### Braille Reading Gestures {#BrailleReadingGestures}

<!-- KC:beginInclude -->
| Name | Key | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Toggles braille mode | `NVDA+alt+t` | Allows cycling between available braille modes: "follow cursors" and "display speech output"|
| Tether braille |`NVDA+control+t` | This option allows you to choose whether the braille display will follow the system focus / caret, the navigator object / review cursor, or both |

> | Toggle automatic scroll | None | Scrolls the display to present information which is larger than will fit on the display at once.  Press again to pause scrolling |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Toggle automatic scroll | None | Toggles whether NVDA periodically scrolls the braille display to present information which is too long to show at once |
```

In addition, the emulated keypress cannot reflect Braille typed before the modifier key was pressed.
This means that, to type alt+2 with a Braille code that uses a number sign, you must first toggle Alt and then type a number sign.

#### Braille Input Gestures {BrailleInputGestures}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- KC:beginInclude -->

```

> | Name | Key | Description |

Reviewer: can this get a kc command to include it in quick commands?

|---|---|---|
| Input via braille display | any dots | Inputs braille dots via the braille keyboard |

> | Erase last entered | dot 7 | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |

Author: ```suggestion
| Erase last entered | `dot 7` | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |
```

> | Translate braille input | dot 7 8 | Translates any braille input |

Author: ```suggestion
| Translate braille input | `dot 7 8` | Translates any braille input |
```

> | Translate and press enter | dot 8 | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |

Author: ```suggestion
| Translate and press enter | `dot 8` | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |
```

> | Translate and press enter | `dot 8` | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Erase last entered | `dot7` | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |
| Translate braille input | `dot7+dot8` | Translates any braille input |
| Translate and press enter | `dot8` | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- KC:endInclude -->

```

In addition, the emulated keypress cannot reflect Braille typed before the modifier key was pressed.
This means that, to type alt+2 with a Braille code that uses a number sign, you must first toggle Alt and then type a number sign.

#### Braille Input Gestures {BrailleInputGestures}

| Name | Key | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Input via braille display | any dots | Inputs braille dots via the braille keyboard |
| Erase last entered | dot 7 | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |
| Translate braille input | dot 7 8 | Translates any braille input |

> | Translate and press enter | dot 8 | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Erase last entered | `dot7` | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |
| Translate braille input | `dot7+dot8` | Translates any braille input |
```

In addition, the emulated keypress cannot reflect Braille typed before the modifier key was pressed.
This means that, to type alt+2 with a Braille code that uses a number sign, you must first toggle Alt and then type a number sign.

#### Braille Input Gestures {#BrailleInputGestures}

> <!-- KC:beginInclude -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- KC:beginInclude -->
```

| Name | Key | Description |
|---|---|---|

> | Input via braille display | `any dots` | Inputs braille dots via the braille keyboard |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Input via braille display | any dots | Inputs braille dots via the braille keyboard |
```

| Erase last entered | `dot7` | Erases the last entered braille cell or character |
| Translate braille input | `dot7+dot8` | Translates any braille input |
| Translate and press enter | `dot8` | Translates any braille input and presses the enter key |

> <!-- KC:endInclude -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- KC:endInclude -->
```

##### Automatic Scroll Rate {#BrailleAutoScrollRate}

This slider controls the rate at which NVDA scrolls the braille display when [automatic braille scrolling](#AutomaticBrailleScrolling) is enabled, measured in cells per second.

> In order to use this feature, you first need to assign a gesture to toggle automatic braille scrolling in the "Braille" section of the [Input Gestures dialog](#InputGestures).

Reviewer 2: This line should be removed.
It's related to the feature, not to the setting.
More, you've already written this in the section dedicated to the braille scrolling feature.

Author: Well, it's related to being able to use the setting.  This is the first option we have in the whole settings dialog which affects a feature which does not have a default gesture.  I'm concerned people may be confused by that so wanted to make it abundantly clear - but I'm open to what others think?

Meanwhile, Noelia has created an issue proposing a default gesture, so if that is adopted, then obviously this line can be removed in both places (though still applies to other braille gestures, but we can discuss that separately).

Reviewer 2: Just above in the paragraph, you write:
`This slider controls the rate at which NVDA scrolls the braille display when [automatic braille scrolling](#AutomaticBrailleScrolling) is enabled, measured in cells per second.`

You already mention the feature, with a link to its description paragraph, and indicate that this parameter applies when the feature is enabled.
This seemed enough to me.

> You may also assign gestures to increase or decrease the scroll rate.

Reviewer 2: This wording would be more similar to what we already have in other paragraphs.

```suggestion
To increase or decrease the scroll rate from anywhere, please assign custom gestures using the [Input Gestures dialog](#InputGestures).
```

Author: I'm happy either way, my only thought is that it is then almost identical to the previous sentence? (and obviously this sentence would be kept - or removed per your other suggestion - along with that previous sentence.

Reviewer 2: No, my suggestion was:
* to remove previous sentence, which is about the feature
* keep this one, which is about the setting, but reword it

Of course, if you discard my suggestion to drop the previous sentence, this suggestion does not fit anymore.

The minimum value (0%) will be 1 cell per second, and the maximum value (100%), 20 cells per second.

> For example, with the default value of 10 cells/sec, if a braille display with 40 cells is used, the number of seconds between automatic scrolls will be 4.

Reviewer 2: Better rewording:
```suggestion
For example, with the default value of 10 cells/sec, if a 40-cell braille display is used, the display will scroll automatically every 4 seconds.
```

##### Automatic Scroll Rate {#BrailleAutoScrollRate}

This slider controls the rate at which NVDA scrolls the braille display when [automatic braille scrolling](#AutomaticBrailleScrolling) is enabled, measured in cells per second.

To increase or decrease the scroll rate from anywhere, please assign custom gestures using the [Input Gestures dialog](#InputGestures).

> The minimum value (0%) will be 1 cell per second, and the maximum value (100%), 20 cells per second.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The minimum value (0%) is 1 cell per second, and the maximum value (100%) is 20 cells per second.
```

##### Automatic Scroll Rate {#BrailleAutoScrollRate}

This slider controls the rate at which NVDA scrolls the braille display when [automatic braille scrolling](#AutomaticBrailleScrolling) is enabled, measured in cells per second.

> In order to use this feature, you first need to assign a gesture to toggle automatic braille scrolling in the "Braille" section of the [Input Gestures dialog](#InputGestures).

Author: ```suggestion
```
